Release Notes -- Apache Jackrabbit -- Version 1.6.0

Introduction
------------

Apache Jackrabbit 1.6 is an incremental feature release. While
remaining compatible with previous releases, Jackrabbit 1.6 introduces
a number of new features, improvements and fixes to known issues.

TODO: Notable new features

See the Apache Jackrabbit website at http://jackrabbit.apache.org/ for
more information.

Release Contents
----------------

This release consists of a single source archive (jackrabbit-1.6.0-src.jar)
that contains all the Apache Jackrabbit components. Use the following
commands (or the equivalent in your system) to build the release with
Maven 2 and Java 1.4 or higher:

    jar xf jackrabbit-1.6.0-src.jar
    cd jackrabbit-1.6.0-src
    mvn install

The source archive is accompanied by SHA1 and MD5 checksums and a PGP
signature that you can use to verify the authenticity of your download.
The public key used for the PGP signature can be found at
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/jackrabbit/dist/KEYS.

The build will result in the following components (with artifactIds in
parenthesis) being built and installed in your local Maven repository.
Pre-built binary artifacts of these components are also available on
the Jackrabbit download page and on the central Maven repository.

  * Jackrabbit API (jackrabbit-api)
    Interface extensions that Apache Jackrabbit supports in
    addition to the standard JCR API.

  * Jackrabbit JCR Commons (jackrabbit-jcr-commons)
    General-purpose classes for use with the JCR API.

  * Jackrabbit JCR Tests (jackrabbit-jcr-tests)
    Set of JCR API test cases designed for testing the compliance
    of an implementation. Note that this is not the official JCR TCK!

  * Jackrabbit Core (jackrabbit-core)
    Core of the Apache Jackrabbit content repository implementation.

  * Jackrabbit Text Extractors (jackrabbit-text-extractors)
    Text extractor classes that allow Jackrabbit to extract text content
    from binary properties for full text indexing.

  * Jackrabbit WebDAV Library (jackrabbit-webdav)
    Interfaces and common utility classes used for building a
    WebDAV server or client.

  * Jackrabbit JCR Server (jackrabbit-jcr-server)
    WebDAV servlet implementations based on JCR.

  * Jackrabbit Web Application (jackrabbit-webapp)
    Deployable Jackrabbit installation with WebDAV support for JCR.

  * Jackrabbit JCA Resource Adapter (jackrabbit-jca)
    J2EE Connector Architecture (JCA) resource adapter for Jackrabbit.

  * Jackrabbit SPI (jackrabbit-spi)
    The SPI defines a layer within a JSR-170 implementation that separates
    the transient space from the persistent layer.

  * Jackrabbit SPI Commons (jackrabbit-spi-commons)
    This component contains generic utility classes that might be used
    to build an SPI implementation.

  * Jackrabbit SPI2JCR (jackrabbit-spi2jcr)
    This component contains a SPI implementation wrapping around an
    implementation of JSR-170.

  * Jackrabbit JCR2SPI (jackrabbit-jcr2spi)
    This component contains an implementation of the JSR-170 API and
    covers the functionality that is not delegated to the SPI
    implementation.

Upgrading to Jackrabbit 1.6
---------------------------

TODO

Upgrading to Jackrabbit 1.5
---------------------------

Apache Jackrabbit 1.4 is fully compatible with the previous 1.x releases.
A previous Apache Jackrabbit 1.x installation can be upgraded by replacing
the relevant jar files with the new versions and adding some new dependencies.
No changes to repository contents are needed.

The Lucene dependency was upgraded to 2.3.2. No index file changes are needed.
Note that Jackrabbit 1.5 only works with Lucene 2.3, not even with 2.2 or 2.4.

The SLF4J dependency was upgraded to 1.5.3 as the default, but Jackrabbit will
work with any SLF4J 1.x version in your classpath.

The PDFBox dependency was upgraded to 0.7.3, which introduced new dependencies
to the FontBox 0.1.0 and JempBox 0.2.0 libraries.

The NekoHTML dependency has been upgraded to 1.9.7.

The POI dependency was upgraded to 3.0.2-FINAL, which introduced new
dependencies to commons-logging and log4j. If you use the Maven dependency
mechanism then you may want to override these dependencies with something
like jcl104-over-slf4j to avoid using multiple different logging frameworks.

A new dependency to Commons IO 1.4 has been added. Make sure that Commons IO
is available in your classpath.

Repository configuration has been extended with options for the new JSR 283
security. However, no changes to existing configuration files are needed
unless you want to enable these new features. Note that the new JSR 283
security feature is a development preview and may change before JCR 2.0.

Note that the configuration file parser will now use strict XML validation
if you include a <!DOCTYPE> setting in your configuration file. You can
disable this feature simply by removing the <!DOCTYPE> setting.

Upgrading to Jackrabbit 1.4
---------------------------

Apache Jackrabbit 1.4 is fully compatible with the previous 1.x releases.
A previous Apache Jackrabbit 1.x installation can be upgraded by replacing
the relevant jar files with the new versions and adding some new dependencies.
No changes to repository contents are needed.

Jackrabbit 1.4 introduces the SPI layer described above, and in addition to
it's earlier dependencies the jackrabbit-core component now also needs the
jackrabbit-spi and jackrabbit-spi-commons components in the classpath.

A number of classes in jackrabbit-jcr-commons have been deprecated, and you
should check for the suggested replacements if you use those classes in your
applications.

The Lucene dependency was upgraded to 2.2.0, and so you need to upgrade
also the lucene-core jar file in your classpath when upgrading
jackrabbit-core. No index file changes are needed.

Repository configuration has been extended with a number of options for
storage, locking and indexing strategies. However, no changes to existing
configuration files are needed unless you want to enable these new features.

Upgrading to Jackrabbit 1.3
---------------------------

Apache Jackrabbit 1.3 is fully compatible with the previous 1.x releases.
A previous Apache Jackrabbit 1.x installation can be upgraded by replacing
the relevant jar files with the new versions. No changes to repository
contents are needed.

See below for a more detailed description of the structural changes in
the Apache Jackrabbit 1.2 release.

Upgrading to Jackrabbit 1.2
---------------------------

The most notable effect of the component restructuring in the 1.2 release
was that the previous jackrabbit-core component has been split in three
pieces: jackrabbit-api, jackrabbit-jcr-commons, and jackrabbit-core. Thus
you need to replace the previous jackrabbit-core-1.x.jar file with the
three new jar archives.

The structure of the WebDAV components have also changed. WebDAV support
now consists of the webapp component jackrabbit-webapp and the libraries
jackrabbit-webdav and jackrabbit-jcr-server.

The Apache Lucene dependency used for full text indexing has been upgraded
to version 2.0 in this release. Lucene 2.0 is able to continue using
existing index files, but you can also manually recreate the index with
Lucene 2.0 extensions by removing the "index" directories of a closed
repository. Jackrabbit will automatically re-index content when the
repository is next started.

Also the Apache Derby dependency has been upgraded to version 10.2.
Like Lucene, the new Derby version can keep using existing database files.
New repositories and workspaces will however be created using extensions
and improvements introduced in the 10.2 version.

Changes and known issues in this release
----------------------------------------

All the changes (new features, improvements, bug fixes) and known issues
in this release are documented in the Jackrabbit issue tracker at:

    https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/JCR

About Apache Jackrabbit
-----------------------

Apache Jackrabbit is a fully conforming implementation of the Content
Repository for Java Technology API (JCR). A content repository is a
hierarchical content store with support for structured and unstructured
content, full text search, versioning, transactions, observation, and
more. Typical applications that use content repositories include content
management, document management, and records management systems.

For more information, visit http://jackrabbit.apache.org/

About The Apache Software Foundation
------------------------------------

Established in 1999, The Apache Software Foundation provides organizational,
legal, and financial support for more than 100 freely-available,
collaboratively-developed Open Source projects. The pragmatic Apache License
enables individual and commercial users to easily deploy Apache software;
the Foundation's intellectual property framework limits the legal exposure
of its 2,500+ contributors.

For more information, visit http://www.apache.org/

